a burnoose yen I remember I met aisel in
Chiang Mai was a total coincidence
we took selfies with each other I
thought it was like a funny thing and
either put my selfie in his video and
then Holly message means like you gotta
fix this I'm gonna destroy him
I'm gonna get my knife and tear up your
baby bag by the way that that bags worth
I think three hundred and fifty
Australian dollars so you know smashed
the iPad and I'm in New South Wales and
he's in Adelaide so I can't really go
and just get my [ __ ] back none of my
friends want to go to his house so yeah
that's that's where I met it's kind of I
really believe that these three people
vegan cheetah journey writer and eyes'll
are all in the same bed together and
what I mean by that is people get
together and they say hey how can we
create drama how can we create drama
within a community these are all people
I can almost guarantee and I'm me
nobody's gonna say anything are common
about this because I'm a small Channel
but there was never any court case
Melissa just said something very
interesting to me she said that she has
absolutely no interest in my court case
a third writer
I have interest in how it relates to
your life and our lives together
yeah we're about to go to Chiang Mai for
the court case and you know I care about
it and how it relates to your life and
the impact that it has just on the vegan
movement in general yeah but when I
first was watching your channel I
avoided any videos that had to do with
durianrider because I was just like you
know my opinion at without okay yeah
without having watched the video as my
opinion was that this was stupid drama
this was not worth my time not worth you
know just wasn't interested you know and
with YouTube you can do that if you're
not interested in a certain subject on
somebody's channel you can just choose
not to watch it right um but then like I
think it was probably when I joined
patreon and I had seen more patreon
exclusive content and I saw like how big
of an extent this how much this had
impacted your life basically so um
keepa that but that's really but you got
erika so it affected my life yeah even
when you were seeing that sentence I
thought you were gonna say you saw how
much an impacted other people's lives
well that's where I assume you're wrong
with that that you saw there were other
people who really but no no because
thank you you know I cared about your
channel because of you
no okay so I mean another thing that I
just asked about you have family members
with Crohn's disease yes and for me I
guess like chapter 2 of this drama the
big turning point in the drama between
myself and durianrider was about Crohn's
disease
it was my saying no during writer did
not cure Crohn's did he claimed that he
cured Crohn's disease he said a lot of
contrary things about that so when you
saw that video did that impact how you
saw this like in terms of just it being
real or meaningful words'
yeah yes I knew that it was important I
totally changed my opinion from it being
frivolous or just you know something -
yeah cash in on views or something
clickbait titles or whatever I saw it to
being something really important that
you were making videos in response to
durianrider and his crazy righto for
Colts his claims about veganism carrying
diseases such as Crohn's or just you
know mental health disorders and no I
knew it was very important than what you
see and also like what you know I
realized that the gravity of it once I
saw how much money had been raised from
the from the fundraiser and also
watching your video where you're you're
in an apartment in Chiangmai and you're
talking about but how this is impacted
you you know to me that was you know the
reason I mean look it's not out of some
false sense humility that I said to you
oh I didn't think you'd say you got an
address because how much it impacted me
those how much affect other people is
for this reason the Internet's full of
crazy people
the Internet's full of people just make
things up off the top of their head just
fiction fiction presented as fact the
fact that there's some guy somewhere on
the internet saying he cured Crohn's
disease that's not a story you know that
doesn't matter just that fact yeah what
matters is there were thousands and
thousands of people really worshiping
this guy really taking his opinion more
seriously than a medical doctor he was
really regarded as a guru oh yeah
there's a politically seriously that's
that's what makes the Crohn's disease
thing
that's what makes the insane diet advice
matter that it's not just one guy's
opinion then it's a guy's opinion who's
put himself in a position of being a
political leader in the in the vegan
movement and the kind of lifestyle coach
and I think that's a fair thing to say
right and that and that it's really
impacting people's lives
yeah but as I mentioned like the
selectivity of what you choose I had
never seen during writers Channel of
course I wasn't into like the diet and
lifestyle part of veganism like I I
really didn't watch much on YouTube you
know like it just wasn't a big part of
my life right so yeah in that in that
sense I really didn't know like what it
was about until I but yes you're right
once I did watch those videos I knew
this would have an impact on the people
who follow him because there are people
who have changed their lives completely
to pursue the life well just another
example that though you know like I
talked a lot about the about gay rights
in parallel to the vegan movement now
during the writers views on
homosexuality it's not that they're so
offensive I mean every day on the
internet people say things that are more
offensive you know I mean like on
Twitter or what if for example you only
members the Republican Party see more
offensive things about gays in
homosexuality every day but again that's
example to me it's like well it mattered
because it really impacted people and I
mean I interviewed one guy by a Skype
and it was it was on my youtube channel
he was a gay man and he talked about
like he really had this like group of
like durianrider followers they were you
know they thought themselves as vegans
but in reality that's what they were and
when during writer kind of made his
policy position stated on on
homosexuality then it really impacted he
and it really impacted his circle of
friends so again it's like you know the
fact that someone's saying this on the
Internet isn't what makes it worth
addressing or worth criticizing it's the
impact it was having on the vegan
movement and including on a kind of
emotional and psychological level on
people you know and of course we could
extend this also to something like his
making a cute allegations of people
accusing people being a pedophile and
him saying he was gonna beat people up
and so on you know the threats of
violence they were real incredible you
know like I know yeah I'll just say like
that too was very striking to me
as opposed to somebody on Twitter or
threatening violence you know and
there's no real buzz you know what I
mean if somebody in Washington DC says
they're gonna beat someone up in Alaska
or something no I mean these were these
were credible threats and this was this
was a form of defamation and slander
that was real and it and did impact
people and in fact did a whole long list
of people before it ever impacted me
right yeah you were the first person to
stand up to it and actually take legal
action against Turner right guys right I
definitely see how it's important and I
can see you know the benefits of you
know updating the people who watch this
YouTube channel about what has been
going on on our way what has been going
well right okay but let's let's be all
the way real here by the same token
during the last two years during might
are completely destroyed his power and
influence so you know by the same to it
before I was saying look what he says
about Crohn's disease matters because
the impact is people well now
what he's saying has no impact on people
anymore he's not taken seriously more he
has discredited himself and a number of
critics like me and including me
criticized him in a way that exposed you
know how unreliable or untrustworthy was
saying was so in this process in the
last two years I mean I think it ceased
to be interesting you know I think it's
easy it's no longer worthwhile I no
longer criticize anything as on his
channel yeah I don't watch his videos
with claims about health or weight loss
or even life coaching someone actually
sent me an email the other day asking me
to criticize a new video during my tour
posted about education about university
education and again well he's become a
joke I mean staying in school what he
says but education so no I'm not saying
I never did but I mean back then it was
taken seriously and there were real
examples people need a net people who
said they made this decision they
dropped out of school because of during
writers advise that's right
there were people who you okay yeah I
met people who changed their life in
this way
right but I mean today I mean surgery
writers basically saying the same
message again and no today it's it's not
worth criticizing because he's not taken
seriously he's been discouraging
yeah yeah so I think that's that's the
other thing that's that's change is the
reality of this the extent to which he's
been defeated although not in court not
legally it wasn't I mean the court
battle was an occasion yet another
important occasion for the whole world
to see that he's a liar for the whole
world to see that he's unreliable and
and shouldn't be taken seriously but it
was about this time that people actually
stopped taking services they should have
stopped me back back with the Crohn's
disease thing I mean what else do you
need to know I mean even even if it was
just if you just watch my one video
about during Crohn's disease really
that's enough there are so many red
flags there you know or one thing like
what he has to say about schizophrenia
or diet and weight loss there are so
many things that are so crazy and just
so inappropriate so if I'm being honest
there's a certain amount of disdain I
have for people that in the first place
even during writers it's like how could
you listen to what he says with and I
think it has any credibility like what
who are these people but you know these
are people that you had interviews with
and I was like yeah these are people
they're they're real human beings I mean
oh what do you were gonna say yeah just
impressionable or like just not critical
of what they wanted to believe yeah yeah
it's bizarre so yeah you know it also
was like a level of not having sympathy
when I was firstly right learning about
this I was just like really come on like
who - to two things could my perspective
on that so this is this is basically the
kind of blame the followers element
which is important we've got up we can't
just blame the leaders you've gotta
blame the forwards yeah but when I look
at those followers you know part of it
is um they are the future of the vegan
movement you watching this video you are
so like it or not so someone like Hania
Hannya mania she was a hundred
like diehard hypnotized freelee and
durianrider supporter even after she'd
met them for years yeah yeah well I mean
as you know even unnatural vegan was
right
like I natural because she was part of
the hi raw you know raw food diet of
this crap right she was a dredge yeah
it's like high on fruit or something so
she stores the URL for high on fruit
right yeah yeah so a privileged vegan
she went to chiang mai and she stayed in
Joe bests house she stayed in the
infamous best transformation mansion did
everything yeah yeah so a lot of these
people a lot of these people were true
believers so no I mean there's a sense
in which I can look at those people and
including obviously someone like Ali
Tabrizi Eve's kind of a moderate you
know to me but who was who wasn't as a
daring writer and freely supporter or
someone like vegan gains vegan gains
flipped he was a during rider freely
support her and then because of my
conflict with her he switched sides so
you know you can look at those people
and say look maybe there's a lot wrong
with them but to some extent this is the
future of the vegan movement of course
my time is better spent
no no but of course you see the kind of
cynicism I have to put up with this road
ship you see you can say mr. president
but is my time better spent trying to
influence someone like Kenya mania vegan
gains and all the you know nameless you
know followers of this of this movement
of eating the same way I try to
influence people who today are
supporters of the rotation everywhere is
my time that are spent trying to
influence them or standing on the street
corner with a with a leaflet giving it
to someone who eats meat every day who
doesn't get it doesn't care it all I
think it's pretty obvious what is yeah
these people care about the future the
vegan movement maybe they're really
misguided maybe they're under the spell
of these stupid health ideas and you
know cure Crohn's disease cure
schizophrenia etc but still these are
people who have committed not just to
the diet to the future the movement to
save the planet and save the animals and
all this kind of stuff so there's some
potential there right yeah yeah it's
yeah I just have to resist the
temptation to be cynical and
like there's no help for these people if
they're gonna but it's true that a lot
of them were very young too so there's a
certain amount a lot a lot of them are
old I saw them in Chiang Mai also you
can see those people face to face you
can see the older people like they may
they may not be the ones that are
popular on YouTube but there are a lot
older people who are into this you know
bicycle tell you barf eat so many
bananas so you gain 30 pounds weight
loss I think I had the same reaction the
other day when we were watching Joey
carp strong's new video right you're
like wow this is the best content I've
ever seen on his channel my shoulder
shirt or something old content so we saw
you know a couple of clips of him from
when he was really deep into the marine
rider cold Wow yeah but you know it
showed it shows that he's able he's
capable of being somebody
positive for the vegan movement you know
I think that an interest is a joint carb
strong he has been positively influenced
by my channel but not my criticism of
durianrider to give an example he was
really positively influenced by my video
about palm oil you know and
deforestation and wood in relation to
veganism the ethics of those things so I
mean again you know my time is better
spent making a video I think that video
is actually criticizing the vegan lass
about palm oil right was how that
started so I'm you know I'm criticizing
a misconception another vegan has but
this is about the future of the movement
you know what I mean so I just mentioned
you know that is the kind of influence
you can have with a tiny YouTube channel
like mine I don't do hair and makeup I
don't do beauty I don't do pro
notification but yeah we definitely had
a kind of catalytic effect or that a
very important effect you know in
marketing the transition from one era of
digital vegan activism to another at
least within YouTube at least for these
few thousand people and yeah I can say
without hesitation those few thousand
people matter you know like I care about
Hania I care about Jason I care
vegan gains and stuff they're not my
close personal friends but like they're
they're human beings who are vegan and
you have the potential to really do
something positive for the future
movement and a lot of them are trying
and again Joey carp strums probably the
most extreme transformation making
videos showing off eating 20 bananas a
day you know that means like to what
he's doing now doing real political
activism and giving you know interviews
on the news and so on the other thing
that really pops nevermind apart from
like hey don't don't demonize and
dismiss these people just because they
used to fall turn around the other thing
is that's really kind of parallel to
part of my experience that Buddhist
studies but as Buddhism as a religion a
lot of the people including the
professor's the PhDs they really were
former cult members and they were put it
this way they didn't think they were
members of a cult at the time right
there was this one really really
infamous group in the United Kingdom but
with links back and forth to Tibet and
the leader was a he was specifically a
gay sexual predator and what he was into
was sex with younger heterosexual men so
that is not that uncommon if obviously
if that's your kick if you're a gay man
and you want to have sex with straight
men you got problems in your life right
as opposed to consensual sex between you
know gay men and a little boy and you
know not it wasn't just him once he put
together his own cult it seemed like all
the elite leaders in this pseudo
Buddhist cult were other gay men into
this kind of stuff and the sexual abuse
in women and you know I remember writing
to especially one professor guy with the
PhD he was a professor in the UK now I
said look man you know I was just
looking at some of the stuff on this
cult I was researching the cult you know
and I see your name come up you know
this is a literally this is how you got
the Buddhism you know and he never he
never replied he no I could name names
I'm not breaking any last names but I
would just say in that same way the
whole field of like respectable Buddhist
studies whether it's like academic level
of PhDs or the respectable religion for
a lot a lot of people there's you know
there's something really important in
closeted this link which is how did you
first get into this how did you end for
a lot of people now it's gonna haunt
them in the future of the movement where
whatever they will be like Joey carbs
strong or what-have-you maybe they go on
to more respectable and more political
forms of engagement with veganism the
future may be they go on to join PCRM or
become a real dietitian stop giving fake
diet advice targeting whatever it is
they do going to become a personal
trainer people are gonna take it in
different directions but yeah how did
you first how did you first open the
door how did you first learn you'd be
interested in what's behind this door
for a lot of them it's gonna be this
this dark period of their life they look
back on and they didn't think it was
dark at the time right you know yeah
yeah all right so look legit I mean I
sympathize do the star of this video
said look you know you feel you have no
interest in this I think I mean someone
made a witty remark to minions said you
know um durianrider is just like a crazy
guy standing in the street screaming at
traffic and this is this from memory and
I said back but I have seen yeah but
look you know this is like my point
about the Crohn's disease claim or the
schizophrenia claim if nobody else is
taking him seriously there's no point
criticizing it if his what he has to say
about education and university well one
now that he's a joke there's no point
member it has become boring precisely
because the consequence of the stakes
there I said back as I recall from
memory no during writer is not like a
madman
screaming at traffic he's a guy on
YouTube who's telling you that if you
buy his ebook now you can make money the
same way he did standing in the street
screaming at traffic I mean that there's
this kind of pyramid scheme like element
to it where it's both that he was making
money from the e-books and videos and
everything else and then he was
promising his audience you also could
make money if you do the same thing and
that was that was huge and a lot of
people have admitted to be normally
low-key that yeah they did start that
you know they actually did believe that
they believed the financial element of
the hook that he used to draw people in
including some of the women that have
made allegations against him ah Touche
yes indeed yeah
so the the profit motive was there even
for some of the women who ended up
sleeping with him and for the women who
ended up later regretting that they
slept with him
yes um but look for this video but the
only news I have I wanted to make it
video tonight so I wouldn't have to make
another video in the future yeah is that
you know in terms of what I hear from my
lawyer and the process of the court case
which is real only lunatics believe it's
not real we've shared legal documents
have shared the receipts looking of the
actual invoice for the showing the
lawyer was paid you know I've shared
videotape showing me at the courthouse
and the other point just really briefly
at the same moment as the laptop gate at
the same moment when all these people in
Shanghai who were in Shanghai with
durianrider were scandalized by the fact
that he had this conflict with his
ex-girlfriend partly about a laptop and
going to the police and he was alleging
she stole his laptop like tires I will
never know the whole story partly
because I just don't have the interest I
mean I'm I'm within six degrees of
separation but I think if I wanted to I
could know the whole story but I don't
you know anyway there was this conflict
at that time and I'd already reached out
to some people including angry vegan I
said then look if you want to know
what's going on with the court case if
you want to confirm for yourself with
your own eyes what's going to cookies
go to the courthouse you're not in Los
Angeles you're not in New York ride your
bike up to the courthouse now remember
everybody I told this to I said look but
you can't wear bike gear so every time I
said look remember like you can't wear
your helmet you have to wear like a
respectable suit you know otherwise it's
Thailand you know a little bit
conservative that way try to wear a
black suit you know black shirt
what-have-you but if you want you can go
to the courthouse you can see the
writing on the wall you can attend the
next hearing
there's ongoing court case and a bunch
of them did so that was the other thing
invisibly was we went from a period of
time where there was this all this BS on
the internet ignoring all the evidence
when those and surrenders to the
evidence claiming that the court case is
fake and then we had this turning point
which wasn't too much commented on there
weren't people really making videos
about it where that all disappeared and
more
everyone I think including durianrider
well right because when durianrider had
his fake fistfight with Sam they had
this physically what he's screaming at
Sam about is he's screaming at Sam you
want me to go to prison and this kind of
stuff because like you support the court
case so even that even built into that
scenario is implicitly that he knows the
court case is real and now he's scared
that it's real so the court case in all
this nonsense all the lies told on all
sides from during writer and the drama
mongers when have you it was another
occasion for during writer to lie and
discredit himself and behave just behave
in an aberrant way that would make
people you know disrespect him and he
did that and a whole lot of people woke
up now those people are gonna have to
ask themselves I see videos of them
asking themselves they're gonna have to
ask themselves why didn't I wake up
before like why didn't I wake up back
when it was just the thing about Crohn's
disease or they're gonna have to ask
themselves that for the rest of their
lives
why didn't I wake up why didn't you wake
up back when he was accusing someone
else did being a pedophile and it wasn't
me why didn't you wake up when he was
threatening to beat up there's a there
are websites that have tried to collect
all the people he's made all the
examples of people he's made threats of
violence against you know and I mean
where he's threatened to go over to his
house and beat them up and this kind of
stuff so there are there are websites
Anthony colpo is one where they putting
together these kinds of example and it's
a long list
why didn't I wake up back when it was
those threats of violence when it was
that defamation when it was this
pseudoscience why didn't wake up some
but they didn't and for a lot of people
it was about that time the laptop and
ex-girlfriend situation and simultaneous
with I'm not saying everyone in
Chiangmai went to the courthouse but
everybody knew someone who'd gone to the
courthouse whereas like no dude this is
not just a YouTube thing this is like
the documents the legal documents are
not fake how could they possibly be it's
ridiculous they've been to the
courthouse they've seen for themselves
that that this is a real ongoing so
that's I've said in earlier videos I
mean the happy ending is just that yeah
we you know a bunch of people but you
know including myself including my
donors you know we really created the
circumstances for durianrider to
self-destruct and to some extent you
know we destroyed him you know his
credibility as a leader in the vegan
movement is over and that was my concern
his ability to her
others the way he tried to hurt me to
deter people is over
so we've won and I would say even his
ability to influence people telling them
to drop out of university or telling
them to quit their medication which I've
read examples of you know that's over
and yeah I was an important part of that
and you people and the donors and so
important part of that and as they say
the other mystery is just that hey
people woke up you know or we're asleep
before however if you asked me do I have
high expectations of this court case and
shame I that the justice system is ever
going to deliver justice my answer is no
this is a very long and convoluted
paperwork process that as imagine has
involved hearings has involved a lot of
legal activity but I think it I think
it's it's at a dead end I think without
durianrider ever employing a defense
lawyer I think on the legal side of the
equation durianrider wins and in every
other important sense including the
question of the destiny in future the
vegan movement we won he lost and for
him it is game over just because Iowa
Mazar had some papers in his hand and he
was standing outside the courthouse or
he walked inside the courthouse you know
any anybody can con anybody like I could
do things every day and show you things
that look real and they're not you know
they're not they're not real
you know I yeah like I this is a bad
analogy but I could take a picture of my
urine in the toilet bowl and then do
another jump cut and have me drinking
something out of a jar that looks
exactly the same color and you people
would believe it right where some of you
would write just for shock value no they
don't do that but they make stuff up so
people keep coming back for more you
become more and more gullible you know
klipsch and and and videos that
manipulate and play tricks on your brain
with music behind it it's very it's very
interesting and very creative and I
actually got suckered into it somewhat
you know and it's a mindfuck it really
is a mindfuck but once you're older and
you start to realize like wait a minute
how does this person have this person's
contact number or information how does
this other person say okay well
someone's old contacted me by phone and
and we agreed to wait a minute I thought
you guys are against one another how how
do you have each other's contact
information you know and even I've come
you know eyes a lot contacted during
Ryder I told him that you know I we
could have a fight and about and he
declined and he didn't get back it's
it's all smoke and mirrors man and the
whole thing with this aisel guy like
think about it somebody that old with
with now he's doing videos with somebody
that's half his age and all the videos
don't if you find it a little creepy
that they're actually inside the
apartment like there's no videos of him
going anywhere or walking down the
street or even he eaten anything it's
vegan what have you seen this man eat I
was almost what have you seen him he he
talks a lot of stuff about veganism
right listen you don't know what this
person's diet is there is no inclination
that he's vegan there's no inclination
that he's a meat-eater there's no
increment it's just talk it's just talk
you don't know these people you're only
going by what they tell you you don't
know me you don't know me but I'm saying
as an older person I can look and I can
analyze and I can place judgment on
people and I'm usually a hundred percent
right I've honest yen